drg_tour (#13)
drogue-iot/blog.drogue.io: content/2021-04-16-drg-guided-tour/index.md

+++
title = "drg for easy drogue cloud administration tasks"
extra.author = "jbtrystram"
description = "A guided tour of `drg` the command line client for drogue-cloud."
+++

A guided tour of `drg`, the command line client that aims to make your life easier when interracting with a `drogue-cloud` instance.

<!-- more -->

`drg` is the newest addition to the drogue familly. The idea behind it is to make interractions with the drogue-cloud APIs less cumbersome and more intuitive to use. 
Obviously it's written in rust, and try to have an intuitive use flow, insparied from the famous `kubectl` tool. 
We landed some nice new features recently, enough to warrant a release. Get yourself the lastest version, and hop on for a tour !

> Disclaimer : if you used `drg` before version `0.4.0` then you MUST delete your configuration file, as it format was changed to support multiple environements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If you used `drg` before version `0.4.0` then you MUST delete your configuration file, as its format was changed to support multiple environments. 
```

By default it should be `$HOME/.config/drg_config.json`. (Or whatever your `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` specifies.) It's now a yaml file with a different structure.

## Installing drg

> If you have a rust toolchain available you can install `drg` from crates.io : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a rust toolchain available you can install `drg` from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/drg): 
```

Make sure you retrieve the full metadata object before doing an update (`drg get app house` will help you do that) because 
you need to provides some other data for an update, such as the unique id of the app an it's resource version !

And of course, if you sell your house you can always remove it from the system : 
    drg delete house french-house
 
 
## Create and manage devices

So now that we have a good idea of how to manage our house scope let's add devices : 

    drg create device fridge --app=house

The behaviour is the same as for the applications so you can create from a file, update and edit and so on..

    drg create device coffee-machine --app=house -f /path/to/device/json
    drg update device coffee-machine --app=house

I am starting to get annoyed by the `--app` argument ? It's uneedlessly repetitive. Let's pull it from the environment: 

    export DRG_APP=house
    drg create device fridge

The app setting is now pulled from the env variable. Less keystrokes ! Yay ! 
and it can also be pulled from the context, that leads nicely into the configuration section, see below.

    
## Contexts and configuration file

> As i said in the beginning `drg` can keep track of multiple clusters if the need arise. Let's explain how that work. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As I said in the beginning `drg` can keep track of multiple clusters if the need arises. Let's explain how that works. 
```

> The configuration file contains multiple contexts. A context represents a cluster API endpoint, a default application (optionnal) and an authentication token (0Auth2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration file contains multiple contexts. A context represents a cluster API endpoint, a default application (optional) and an authentication token (0Auth2).
```

When we logged into a cluster at the begining we saved a context with a name. Let's say we named it `my-cluster`, we can set a default app for it : 
    drg context set-default-app house --context=my-cluster
    

> Note: here the `--context` argument is optionnal as a default context can be pulled from the environment variable `DRG_CONTEXT`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: here the `--context` argument is optional as a default context can be pulled from the environment variable `DRG_CONTEXT`. 
```

Also, when you log into a cluster without previous info in the config file (.i.e. running `drg login`for the first time), the new context will be set as active by default. 

But `my-cluster` is not a really great name, as we just moved it to an Azure cluster, let's make it clearer : 
    drg context rename my-cluster azure.
    
You can list, delete, set another context as active and show the config file. 

# What's next ?

> We have a nice long list of things that we want to add in `drg` !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a nice [long list of things](https://github.com/drogue-iot/drg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement) that we want to add in `drg` !
```

Here are the high priority items : 
 * list devices and apps
 * Support JSON PATCH to update resources
 * Sending commands to devices using the [command and control feature](https://blog.drogue.io/command-your-devices/) of drogue cloud.
 * Tap into a stream of telemetry and see the stream on your console.

> You can go and look [in the issue section of the repo]() for more details and submit your awesone ideas there.

Reviewer: I think there is a broken link.
